Document the linear() easing function (#19896)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/easing-function/index.md

## Syntax

```css
/* linear function and keyword */
/* linear(list-of-points) */
linear(1, -0.5, 0);
linear;

/* cubic-bezier function and keywords */
/* cubic-bezier(x1, y1, x2, y2) */
cubic-bezier(0.42, 0.0, 1.0, 1.0);
ease;
ease-in;
ease-out;
ease-in-out;

/* steps function and keywords */
/* steps(number-of-steps, direction) */
steps(4, end);
step-start;
step-end;
```

### Values

- _list-of-points_
  - : List of linear stops

- _x1, y1, x2, y2_
  - : {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} values representing the abscissas and ordinates of the [P1 and P2 points](#cubic_bézier_functions) defining the cubic Bézier curve. x1 and x2 must be in the range `[0, 1]`, otherwise the value is invalid.

- `ease`
  - : Indicates that the interpolation starts slowly, accelerates sharply, and then slows gradually towards the end. This keyword represents the easing function `cubic-bezier(0.25, 0.1, 0.25, 1.0)`. It is similar to [`ease-in-out`](#ease-in-out), though it accelerates more sharply at the beginning.

> ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. A curving line extends from the origin to the X 1 Y 1 position, quickly rising and arcing.](cubic-bezier-ease.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio' with a curved line quickly rising from the origin to the X 1 Y 1 position.](cubic-bezier-ease.png)
```

- `ease-in`
  - : Indicates that the interpolation starts slowly, then progressively speeds up until the end, at which point it stops abruptly. This keyword represents the easing function `cubic-bezier(0.42, 0.0, 1.0, 1.0)`.

> ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. A slightly curving line extends from the origin to the X 1 Y 1 position, with most of the curve close to the origin, straightening out as it approaches X 1 Y 1.](cubic-bezier-ease-in.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio' shows a shallow curve from the origin that straightens out as it approaches X1 Y1.](cubic-bezier-ease-in.png)
```

- `ease-in-out`
  - : Indicates that the interpolation starts slowly, speeds up, and then slows down towards the end. This keyword represents the easing function `cubic-bezier(0.42, 0.0, 0.58, 1.0)`. At the beginning, it behaves like the [`ease-in`](#ease-in) function; at the end, it is like the [`ease-out`](#ease-out) function.

> ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. A slightly curving line extends from the origin to the X 1 Y 1 position. The curve is symmetrical, resembling a stretched out letter S.](cubic-bezier-ease-in-out.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio' shows a symmetrical, 'S'-shaped curving line from the origin to the X1 Y1 position.](cubic-bezier-ease-in-out.png)
```

- `ease-out`
  - : Indicates that the interpolation starts abruptly and then progressively slows down towards the end. This keyword represents the easing function `cubic-bezier(0.0, 0.0, 0.58, 1.0)`.

> ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. A slightly curving line extends from the origin to the X 1 Y 1 position, starting as an almost straight diagonal line and curving as it gets close to X 1 Y 1.](cubic-bezer-ease-out.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio' shows a straight diagonal line that lightly curves as it gets close to X1 Y1.](cubic-bezer-ease-out.png)
```

- _number-of-steps_
  - : A strictly positive {{cssxref("&lt;integer&gt;")}}, representing the amount of equidistant treads composing the stepping function.

- _direction_
  - : One of the following keywords that indicate when the jumps occur:
    - `jump-start` denotes that the first step or jump happens when the interpolation begins.
    - `jump-end` denotes that the last step or jump happens when the interpolation ends.
    - `jump-both` denotes that jumps occur at both the 0% and 100% marks, effectively adding a step during the interpolation iteration.
    - `jump-none` denotes no jump on either end. Instead, holding at both the 0% mark and the 100% mark, each for 1/n of the duration.
    - `start` is the equivalent of `jump-start`.
    - `end` is the equivalent of `jump-end`. This is the default.

- `step-start`
  - : Indicates that the interpolation jumps immediately to its final state, where it stays until the end. This keyword represents the easing function `steps(1, jump-start)` or `steps(1, start)`.

> ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. Two dots are present, the first at the X 0 Y 0 position, and the second at the X 1 Y 1 position. The second dot has a horizontal lines extending 1 units back towards the Y axis.](steps-1-start.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio'. There is a point at X0 Y0 and another at X1 Y1 with a line extending towards the Y axis.](steps-1-start.png)
```

- `step-end`
  - : Indicates that the interpolation stays in its initial state until the end, at which point it jumps directly to its final state. This keyword represents the easing function `steps(1, jump-end)` or `steps(1, end)`.

> ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. Two dots are present, the first at the X 0 Y 0 position, and the second at the X 1 Y 1 position. The first dot has a horizontal lines extending 1 unit forwards away from the Y axis.](steps-1-end.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio'. There is a point at X0 Y0 with a line extending away from the Y axis and a point at X1 Y1.](steps-1-end.png)
```

## Description

> The are three types of easing functions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three types of easing functions:
```

- [Linear](#linear_easing_function)
- [Cubic Bézier](#cubic_bézier_easing_function)
- [Step](#step_easing_function)

### Linear easing function

The `linear()` function defines a piecewise linear function that interpolates linearly between its points, allowing you to approximate more complex animations like bounce and elastic effects. The interpolation is done at a constant rate from beginning to end. A typical use of the `linear()` function is to provide many points to create the illusion of a curve.

When you define the `linear()` function, you specify the _linear easing points_ as a list, as in, `linear(0, 0.25, 1)`. This `linear()` function produces an easing function that moves linearly from `0`, to `0.25`, then to `1`.

Consider another example of the function: `linear(0, 0.25 75%, 1)`. This produces a linear easing function that spends 75% of the time transitioning from `0` to `.25` and the last 25% transitioning from `.25` to `1`.

The `linear` keyword produces a `linear()` function with two points. This is equivalent to the easing function `cubic-bezier(0.0, 0.0, 1.0, 1.0)`.

> ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. A straight diagonal line extends from the origin to the X 1 Y 1 position.](cubic-bezier-linear.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio'. A straight diagonal line extends from the origin to the X1 Y1 position.](cubic-bezier-linear.png)
```

However, certain properties will restrict the output if it goes outside an allowable range. For example, a color component greater than `255` or smaller than `0` will be clipped to the closest allowed value (`255` and `0`, respectively). Some `cubic-bezier()` curves exhibit this property.

![Graph of the easing function showing the output ratio reaching 1, and then staying at 1 for the rest of the time.](tf_with_output_gt_than_1_clipped.png)

When you specify an invalid `cubic-bezier` curve, CSS ignores the whole property.

The `cubic-bezier()` function can also be specified using these keywords, each of which represent a specific `cubic-bezier()` notation: [`ease`](#ease), [`ease-in`](#ease-in), [`ease-out`](#ease-out), and [`ease-in-out`](#ease-in-out).

### Step easing function

The `steps()` functional notation defines a [step function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Step_function) that divides the domain of output values in equidistant steps. This subclass of step functions are sometimes also called _staircase functions_.

These are a few examples illustrating the `steps()` function:

```css
steps(2, jump-start)
steps(2, start)
```

>   ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. Three dots are present, the first at the X 0 Y 0 position, the second at the X 0.5 Y 0.5 position, and the third at the X 1 Y 1 position. The second and third dots have horizontal lines extending 0.5 units backwards towards the Y axis.](steps-2-start.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio'. There are points at X0 Y0, X0.5 Y0.5, and X1 Y1. The second and third points have lines towards the Y axis.](steps-2-start.png)
```

```css
steps(4, jump-end)
steps(4, end)
```

  ![Four steps, with a jump from the fourth step to the final value at the 100% mark.](steps-4-end.png)

```css
steps(5, jump-none)
```

  ![Five steps, with no jumps, so 20% of the time is at the beginning state or 0% mark and the last 20% is at the final state, or 100% mark.](step5none.png)

```css
steps(3, jump-both)
```

>   ![A graph with X and Y ranges from 0 to 1, with the X axis labeled 'Time ratio' and the Y axis labeled 'Output ratio'. Five dots are present, the first at the X 0 Y 0 position, the second at the X 0 Y 0.25 position, the third at the X 0.5 Y 0.5 position, the fourth at the X 0.75 Y 0.75 position, and the fifth at the X 1 Y 1 position. The second, third, and fourth dots have horizontal lines extending 0.25 units forwards away from the Y axis.](step3both.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![A 2D graph of 'Time ratio' to 'Output ratio'. There are points in 0.25 steps on both axes from X0 Y0 to X1 Y1. The second, third, and fourth points have lines extending 0.25 units away from the Y axis.](step3both.png)
```
